Our objective is to create a prediction file from Yelp Database and find the best
fitting classifier that will label predictions negative, positive, neutral in the most
accurate way.

Data Preprocessing
Train3.csv contains 56000, test3.csv 14000 attributes. In our training set there
are 38348 positive, 11897 negative and 5755 neutral classes. As it can be seen
from the results, the dataset is very unbalanced so through our python program
(project.py) we increased the number of samples of the neutral class and
decreased the number of samples of the positive class. After we achieve a more
realistic and balanced dataset, the python program starts doing text
preprocessing. We used the nltk library to remove any stop words and convert
anything uppercase to lowercase. We also got rid of words that start with a non
alphabetical letter as well. We used the nltk library to tokenize the words.
The processed files are printed out as new_train3.csv and new_text3.csv.
Manually, we got rid of the ID column in both training data and text data.
Additionally, we added a Class column to test data and filled it with ? for weka.
Then through weka, we did some more data preprocessing. At the training data,
both text and class were considered as nominal. We left Class as nominal and
turned the Text column into string and used string to word vector function which
turned every single word into a numerical value. We had 1350 attributes at the
end. We did the same procedure for the text column of the test data but for the
Class data which was shown as a string, we turned that into nominal data.
Training data had 1009 attributes. As our attribute numbers were not equal,
weka used InputMappedClassifier function to match the datasets when we
wanted to run a classifier method. The function printed out the non matching
attributes (around 300 attributes) which then led us to go and manually remove
them from the training set to get a better accuracy. We could have used a python
code that compares and removes the non matching attributes as well.


Classification
We started testing our data with the classifications methods we learned in class.
After we tried filtered classifier with Naive Bayes, SVM, Logistic Regression and
Random Forest which are the most recommended classification methods for
sentiment analysis, we saw that Random Forest gave us the best fitting result
with the highest accuracy rate among all of them. We didn’t change the default
parameter values.


Conclusion
Random forest classification method reduces overfitting and was observed to be
the best fitting method for this sentiment analysis prediction. From the
prediction.txt file it is obvious that the positive samples are still a lot more (10560
samples) compared to negative (3132 samples) and neutral (308) samples. The
distribution of positive, negative and neutral samples are still unbalanced and
similar to our test dataset.

In order to run our python code, please make sure you have all the necessary
libraries installed (panda, sklearn, nltk) and have the test3.csv, train3,csv inside
the same folder as the project.py.
